<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
  <title>bdep-ci(1) bdep 0.13.0</title>

  <style type="text/css">
/* file      : common.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

html
{
  font-family: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, "Segoe UI", Arial, freesans, sans-serif;
  font-weight: normal;
  font-size: 18px;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  letter-spacing: 0.01em;

  color: #292929;
}

body {margin: 0;} /* There is non-0 default margin for body. */

/* See notes on what's going on here. */
body {min-width: 17em;}
@media only screen and (min-width: 360px)
{
  body {min-width: 19em;}
}

/*
 * Header (optional).
 */

#header-bar
{
  width: 100%;

  background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.04);
  border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);

  padding: .4em 0 .42em 0;
  margin: 0 0 1.4em 0;
}

#header
{
  /* Same as in #content. */
  max-width: 41em;
  margin: 0 auto 0 auto;
  padding: 0 .4em 0 .4em;

  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;

  width: 100%;
  display: table;
  border: none;
  border-collapse: collapse;
}

#header-logo, #header-menu
{
  display: table-cell;
  border: none;
  padding: 0;
  vertical-align: middle;
}

#header-logo {text-align: left;}
#header-menu {text-align: right;}

/* These overlap with #header's margin because of border collapsing. */
#header-logo {padding-left: .4em;}
#header-menu {padding-right: .4em;}

#header-logo a
{
  color: #000;
  text-decoration: none;
  outline: none;
}
#header-logo a:visited {color: #000;}
#header-logo a:hover, #header-logo a:active {color: #000;}

#header-menu a
{
  font-size: 0.889em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  text-align: right;
  margin-left: 1.2em;
  white-space: nowrap;
  letter-spacing: 0;
}

#header-menu a
{
  color: #000;
  outline: none;
}
#header-menu a:visited {color: #000;}
#header-menu a:hover, #header-menu a:active
{
  color: #3870c0;
  text-decoration: none;
}

/* Flexbox-based improvements though the above works reasonably well. */
#header-menu-body
{
  width: 100%;

  display: -webkit-inline-flex;
  display: inline-flex;

  -webkit-flex-flow: row wrap;
  flex-flow: row wrap;

  -webkit-justify-content: flex-end;
  justify-content: flex-end;
}

/* Whether we want it (and at which point) depends on the size of the menu. */
/*
@media only screen and (max-width: 567px)
{
  #header-menu-body
  {
    -webkit-flex-direction: column;
    flex-direction: column;
  }
}
*/

/*
 * Content.
 */

#content
{
  max-width: 41em;
  margin: 0 auto 0 auto;
  padding: 0 .4em 0 .4em; /* Space between text and browser frame. */

  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

/*
 * Footer (optional).
 */

#footer
{
  color: #767676;
  font-size: 0.7223em;
  line-height: 1.3em;
  margin: 2.2em 0 1em 0;
  text-align: center;
}

#footer a
{
  color: #767676;
  text-decoration: underline;
}
#footer a:visited {color: #767676;}
#footer a:hover, #footer a:active {color: #3870c0;}

/* Screen size indicator in the footer. The before/after content is in case
   we don't have any content in the footer. Margin is to actually see the
   border separate from the browser frame. */

/*
#footer:before {content: "\A0";}
#footer:after {content: "\A0";}

#footer
{
  border-left: 1px solid;
  border-right: 1px solid;
  margin-left: 1px;
  margin-right: 1px;
}

@media only screen and (max-width: 359px)
{
  #footer {border-color: red;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 360px) and (max-width: 567px)
{
  #footer {border-color: orange;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 568px) and (max-width: 1023px)
{
  #footer {border-color: blue;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 1024px)
{
  #footer {border-color: green;}
}
*/

/*
 * Common elements.
 */

p, li, dd {text-align: justify;}
.code {text-align: left;} /* Manually aligned. */
pre {text-align: left;}   /* If it is inside li/dd. */

/* Notes. */

.note
{
  color: #606060;
}

div.note
{
  margin: 2em 0 2em 0; /* The same top/bottom margings as pre box. */

  padding-left: 0.5em;
  border: 0.25em;
  border-left-style: solid;
  border-color: #808080;

  page-break-inside: avoid;
}

div.note :first-child {margin-top:    0;}
div.note :last-child  {margin-bottom: 0;}

span.note::before {content: "[Note: "}
span.note::after  {content: "]"}

/* Links. */
a
{
  color: #3870c0;
  /*color: #4078c0;*/
  text-decoration: none;
}

a:hover, a:active
{
/*color: #006fbf;*/
/*color: #0087e7;*/
  text-decoration: underline;
}

a:visited
{
/*color: #003388;*/
  color: #00409c;
}

/* Standard paragraph. */

p, pre {margin: 1em 0 1em 0;}

/* Standard lists. */
ul, ol, dl {margin: 1em 0 1em 0;}
ul li, ol li {margin: 0 0 .4em 0;}
ul li {list-style-type: circle;}
dl dt {margin: 0 0 0 0;}
dl dd {margin: 0 0 .6em 1.8em;}

code, pre
{
  font-family: Consolas, "Liberation Mono", Menlo, Courier, monospace;
  font-size: 0.92em;
  letter-spacing: 0;
}

pre {white-space: pre-wrap;}
@media only screen and (max-width: 567px)
{
  pre {word-break: break-all;}
}

/* Use page rather than system font settings. */
input
{
  font-family: inherit;
  font-weight: inherit;
  font-size:   inherit;
  line-height: inherit;
}

/* file      : pre-box.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

/* Note: see also p-code-box.css. */

pre
{
  background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);
  border-radius: 0.2em;
  padding: .8em .4em .8em .4em;
  margin: 2em -.4em 2em -.4em; /* Use margins of #content. */
}

/* file      : man.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

/* Bases:
 *
 * common.css
 * pre-box.css
 *
 */

#content
{
  max-width: 42.1em;
  padding-left: 1.5em; /* Reserve for the heading. */
}

h1
{
  font-weight: normal;
  font-size: 1.58em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  margin: 1.6em 0 .6em -.88em;
}

/* Definition list for options. */
dl.options dt {margin: 1em 0 0 0;}
dl.options dd {margin: .1em 0 0 4.5em;}

/* Make lists inside option descriptions a tad smaller. */
dl.options dd ul, dl.options dd ol, dl.options dd dl
{
  font-size: 0.889em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
}

  </style>

</head>
<body>
<div id="content">

  <h1>NAME</h1>

  <p><b><code>bdep-ci</code></b> &#8211; submit project test request to CI server</p>
  <h1>SYNOPSIS</h1>

  <p class="code"><code><b>bdep ci</b> [<i>options</i>] [<i>cfg-spec</i>]
  [<i>pkg-spec</i>]</code></p>

  <p class="code"><code><i>pkg-spec</i> = (<b>--directory</b>|<b>-d</b>
  <i>pkg-dir</i>)... | <i>prj-spec</i>
  <br/>
  <i>prj-spec</i> = <b>--directory</b>|<b>-d</b> <i>prj-dir</i>
  <br/>
  <i>cfg-spec</i> = <b>@</b><i>cfg-name</i> | <b>--config</b>|<b>-c</b>
  <i>cfg-dir</i></code></p>

  <h1>DESCRIPTION</h1>

  <p>The <code><b>ci</b></code> command submits the project packages test
  request to a CI server.</p>

  <p>If no project or package directory is specified, then the current working
  directory is assumed. If no configuration is specified, then the default
  configuration is used. If the specified directory is a project directory,
  then all the packages initialized in the configuration are submitted. See <a
  href="bdep-projects-configs.xhtml"><code><b>bdep-projects-configs(1)</b></code></a>
  for details on specifying projects and configurations.</p>

  <p>A CI request consists of the specified packages and their versions as
  well as the project's remote version control repository URL corresponding to
  the current (local) state of the project. The CI server should be able to
  fetch these package versions from this repository as well as any
  dependencies from this repository or its prerequisite/complement
  repositories, according to each package's
  <code><b>repositories.manifest</b></code>.</p>

  <p>If the CI server is not explicitly specified with the
  <code><b>--server</b></code> option, the request is submitted to
  <code><b>ci.cppget.org</b></code> by default.</p>

  <p>Unless the remote repository URL is specified with the
  <code><b>--repository</b></code> option, it will be automatically derived
  from the version control's "remote" URL. In case of
  <code><b>git(1)</b></code>, it will be based on the
  <code><b>remote.origin.url</b></code> configuration value unless overridden
  with <code><b>remote.origin.build2Url</b></code>. The repository URL is then
  adjusted to corresponding to the current (local) state of the project. In
  case of <code><b>git(1)</b></code>, the current branch and commit id are
  added as the repository URL fragment (see <a
  href="../../bpkg/doc/bpkg-repository-types.xhtml"><code><b>bpkg-repository-types(1)</b></code></a>
  for details).</p>

  <p>Some package manifest values can be overridden as part of the CI request
  submission using the <code><b>--override</b></code> and
  <code><b>--overrides-file</b></code> options as well as their
  <code><b>--builds</b></code> and <code><b>--build-email</b></code>
  shortcuts. This is primarily useful for specifying alternative build
  configurations and/or build notification emails. For example:</p>

  <pre>$ bdep ci --builds gcc</pre>

  <p>Note that manifest overrides override the entire value group that they
  belong to. Currently, the following value groups can be overridden with the
  <code><b>build*-email</b></code> group overridden by default as if by
  specifying an empty build email.</p>

  <pre>build-email build-{warning,error}-email
builds build-{include,exclude}</pre>

  <p>Note also that the build constraints group values are overridden
  hierarchically so that the <code><b>build-{include,exclude}</b></code>
  overrides don't affect the <code><b>builds</b></code> values.</p>

  <p>While the exact interpretation of the CI request depends on the specific
  service, normally, the CI server will respond with a reference that can be
  used to query the results. See <a
  href="../../brep/doc/build2-repository-interface-manual.xhtml#ci">Package
  CI</a> for details on the CI request handling.</p>

  <h1>CI OPTIONS</h1>

  <dl class="options">
    <dt><code><b>--yes</b></code>|<code><b>-y</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Don't prompt for confirmation before submitting.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--server</b></code> <code><i>url</i></code></dt>
    <dd>CI server to submit the request to.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--repository</b></code> <code><i>url</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Remote repository URL for the project.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--override</b></code> <code><i>name</i></code>:<code><i>value</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Package manifest value override. Repeat this option to override
    multiple values.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--overrides-file</b></code> <code><i>file</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Read manifest value overrides from the specified manifest fragment
    file. Repeat this option to specify multiple override files.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--builds</b></code> <code><i>class-expr</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Shortcut for
    <code><b>--override&#160;builds:</b><code><i>class-expr</i></code></code>.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--build-email</b></code> <code><i>email</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Shortcut for
    <code><b>--override&#160;build-email:</b><code><i>email</i></code></code>.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--simulate</b></code> <code><i>outcome</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Simulate the specified outcome of the CI process without actually
    performing any externally visible actions (such as testing the packages or
    publishing the result). The commonly used outcome value is
    <code><b>success</b></code>. For other recognized outcomes refer to the CI
    service documentation.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--all</b></code>|<code><b>-a</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Use all build configurations.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--config</b></code>|<code><b>-c</b></code> <code><i>dir</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Specify the build configuration as a directory.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--directory</b></code>|<code><b>-d</b></code> <code><i>dir</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Assume project/package is in the specified directory rather than in
    the current working directory.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--config-name</b></code>|<code><b>-n</b></code> <code><i>name</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Specify the build configuration as a name.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--config-id</b></code> <code><i>num</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Specify the build configuration as an id.</dd>
  </dl>

  <h1>COMMON OPTIONS</h1>

  <p>The common options are summarized below with a more detailed description
  available in <a
  href="bdep-common-options.xhtml"><code><b>bdep-common-options(1)</b></code></a>.</p>

  <dl class="options">
    <dt><code><b>-v</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Print essential underlying commands being executed.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>-V</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Print all underlying commands being executed.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--quiet</b></code>|<code><b>-q</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Run quietly, only printing error messages.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--verbose</b></code> <code><i>level</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Set the diagnostics verbosity to <code><i>level</i></code> between 0
    and 6.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--jobs</b></code>|<code><b>-j</b></code> <code><i>num</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Number of jobs to perform in parallel.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--no-progress</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Suppress progress indicators for long-lasting operations, such as
    network transfers, building, etc.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--bpkg</b></code> <code><i>path</i></code></dt>
    <dd>The package manager program to be used for build configuration
    management.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--bpkg-option</b></code> <code><i>opt</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Additional option to be passed to the package manager program.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--build</b></code> <code><i>path</i></code></dt>
    <dd>The build program to be used to build packages.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--build-option</b></code> <code><i>opt</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Additional option to be passed to the build program.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--curl</b></code> <code><i>path</i></code></dt>
    <dd>The curl program to be used for network operations.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--curl-option</b></code> <code><i>opt</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Additional option to be passed to the curl program.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--pager</b></code> <code><i>path</i></code></dt>
    <dd>The pager program to be used to show long text.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--pager-option</b></code> <code><i>opt</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Additional option to be passed to the pager program.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--options-file</b></code> <code><i>file</i></code></dt>
    <dd>Read additional options from <code><i>file</i></code>.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--default-options</b></code> <code><i>dir</i></code></dt>
    <dd>The directory to load additional default options files from.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>--no-default-options</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Don't load default options files.</dd>
  </dl>

  <h1>DEFAULT OPTIONS FILES</h1>

  <p>See <a
  href="bdep-default-options-files.xhtml"><code><b>bdep-default-options-files(1)</b></code></a>
  for an overview of the default options files. For the <code><b>ci</b></code>
  command the search start directory is the project directory. The following
  options files are searched for in each directory and, if found, loaded in
  the order listed:</p>

  <pre>bdep.options
bdep-ci.options</pre>

  <p>The following <code><b>ci</b></code> command options cannot be specified
  in the default options files:</p>

  <pre>--directory|-d</pre>

  <h1>BUGS</h1>

  <p>Send bug reports to the
  <a href="mailto:users@build2.org">users@build2.org</a> mailing list.</p>

</div>

<div id="footer">
Copyright &#169; 2014-2020 the build2 authors.<br/>
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the MIT License.
</div>

</body>
</html>
