<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
  <title>bpkg-argument-grouping(1) bpkg 0.13.0</title>

  <style type="text/css">
/* file      : common.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

html
{
  font-family: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, "Segoe UI", Arial, freesans, sans-serif;
  font-weight: normal;
  font-size: 18px;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  letter-spacing: 0.01em;

  color: #292929;
}

body {margin: 0;} /* There is non-0 default margin for body. */

/* See notes on what's going on here. */
body {min-width: 17em;}
@media only screen and (min-width: 360px)
{
  body {min-width: 19em;}
}

/*
 * Header (optional).
 */

#header-bar
{
  width: 100%;

  background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.04);
  border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);

  padding: .4em 0 .42em 0;
  margin: 0 0 1.4em 0;
}

#header
{
  /* Same as in #content. */
  max-width: 41em;
  margin: 0 auto 0 auto;
  padding: 0 .4em 0 .4em;

  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;

  width: 100%;
  display: table;
  border: none;
  border-collapse: collapse;
}

#header-logo, #header-menu
{
  display: table-cell;
  border: none;
  padding: 0;
  vertical-align: middle;
}

#header-logo {text-align: left;}
#header-menu {text-align: right;}

/* These overlap with #header's margin because of border collapsing. */
#header-logo {padding-left: .4em;}
#header-menu {padding-right: .4em;}

#header-logo a
{
  color: #000;
  text-decoration: none;
  outline: none;
}
#header-logo a:visited {color: #000;}
#header-logo a:hover, #header-logo a:active {color: #000;}

#header-menu a
{
  font-size: 0.889em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  text-align: right;
  margin-left: 1.2em;
  white-space: nowrap;
  letter-spacing: 0;
}

#header-menu a
{
  color: #000;
  outline: none;
}
#header-menu a:visited {color: #000;}
#header-menu a:hover, #header-menu a:active
{
  color: #3870c0;
  text-decoration: none;
}

/* Flexbox-based improvements though the above works reasonably well. */
#header-menu-body
{
  width: 100%;

  display: -webkit-inline-flex;
  display: inline-flex;

  -webkit-flex-flow: row wrap;
  flex-flow: row wrap;

  -webkit-justify-content: flex-end;
  justify-content: flex-end;
}

/* Whether we want it (and at which point) depends on the size of the menu. */
/*
@media only screen and (max-width: 567px)
{
  #header-menu-body
  {
    -webkit-flex-direction: column;
    flex-direction: column;
  }
}
*/

/*
 * Content.
 */

#content
{
  max-width: 41em;
  margin: 0 auto 0 auto;
  padding: 0 .4em 0 .4em; /* Space between text and browser frame. */

  -webkit-box-sizing: border-box;
  -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

/*
 * Footer (optional).
 */

#footer
{
  color: #767676;
  font-size: 0.7223em;
  line-height: 1.3em;
  margin: 2.2em 0 1em 0;
  text-align: center;
}

#footer a
{
  color: #767676;
  text-decoration: underline;
}
#footer a:visited {color: #767676;}
#footer a:hover, #footer a:active {color: #3870c0;}

/* Screen size indicator in the footer. The before/after content is in case
   we don't have any content in the footer. Margin is to actually see the
   border separate from the browser frame. */

/*
#footer:before {content: "\A0";}
#footer:after {content: "\A0";}

#footer
{
  border-left: 1px solid;
  border-right: 1px solid;
  margin-left: 1px;
  margin-right: 1px;
}

@media only screen and (max-width: 359px)
{
  #footer {border-color: red;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 360px) and (max-width: 567px)
{
  #footer {border-color: orange;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 568px) and (max-width: 1023px)
{
  #footer {border-color: blue;}
}

@media only screen and (min-width: 1024px)
{
  #footer {border-color: green;}
}
*/

/*
 * Common elements.
 */

p, li, dd {text-align: justify;}
.code {text-align: left;} /* Manually aligned. */
pre {text-align: left;}   /* If it is inside li/dd. */

/* Notes. */

.note
{
  color: #606060;
}

div.note
{
  margin: 2em 0 2em 0; /* The same top/bottom margings as pre box. */

  padding-left: 0.5em;
  border: 0.25em;
  border-left-style: solid;
  border-color: #808080;

  page-break-inside: avoid;
}

div.note :first-child {margin-top:    0;}
div.note :last-child  {margin-bottom: 0;}

span.note::before {content: "[Note: "}
span.note::after  {content: "]"}

/* Links. */
a
{
  color: #3870c0;
  /*color: #4078c0;*/
  text-decoration: none;
}

a:hover, a:active
{
/*color: #006fbf;*/
/*color: #0087e7;*/
  text-decoration: underline;
}

a:visited
{
/*color: #003388;*/
  color: #00409c;
}

/* Standard paragraph. */

p, pre {margin: 1em 0 1em 0;}

/* Standard lists. */
ul, ol, dl {margin: 1em 0 1em 0;}
ul li, ol li {margin: 0 0 .4em 0;}
ul li {list-style-type: circle;}
dl dt {margin: 0 0 0 0;}
dl dd {margin: 0 0 .6em 1.8em;}

code, pre
{
  font-family: Consolas, "Liberation Mono", Menlo, Courier, monospace;
  font-size: 0.92em;
  letter-spacing: 0;
}

pre {white-space: pre-wrap;}
@media only screen and (max-width: 567px)
{
  pre {word-break: break-all;}
}

/* Use page rather than system font settings. */
input
{
  font-family: inherit;
  font-weight: inherit;
  font-size:   inherit;
  line-height: inherit;
}

/* file      : pre-box.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

/* Note: see also p-code-box.css. */

pre
{
  background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);
  border-radius: 0.2em;
  padding: .8em .4em .8em .4em;
  margin: 2em -.4em 2em -.4em; /* Use margins of #content. */
}

/* file      : man.css
 * license   : MIT; see accompanying LICENSE file
 */

/* Bases:
 *
 * common.css
 * pre-box.css
 *
 */

#content
{
  max-width: 42.1em;
  padding-left: 1.5em; /* Reserve for the heading. */
}

h1
{
  font-weight: normal;
  font-size: 1.58em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
  margin: 1.6em 0 .6em -.88em;
}

/* Definition list for options. */
dl.options dt {margin: 1em 0 0 0;}
dl.options dd {margin: .1em 0 0 4.5em;}

/* Make lists inside option descriptions a tad smaller. */
dl.options dd ul, dl.options dd ol, dl.options dd dl
{
  font-size: 0.889em;
  line-height: 1.4em;
}

  </style>

</head>
<body>
<div id="content">

  <h1>NAME</h1>

  <p><b><code>bpkg-argument-grouping</code></b> &#8211; argument grouping facility</p>
  <h1>SYNOPSIS</h1>

  <p class="code"><code><b>bpkg</b> <b>{</b> <i>options</i> <b>}+</b>
  <i>argument</i> <b>+{</b> <i>options</i> <b>}</b></code></p>

  <h1>DESCRIPTION</h1>

  <p>For certain commands certain options and command line variables can be
  grouped to only apply to specific arguments. This help topic describes the
  argument grouping facility used for this purpose.</p>

  <p>Groups can be specified before (leading) and/or after (trailing) the
  argument they apply to. A leading group starts with '<code><b>{</b></code>'
  and ends with '<code><b>}+</b></code>' while a trailing group starts with
  '<code><b>+{</b></code>' and ends with '<code><b>}</b></code>'. For
  example:</p>

  <pre>{ --foo --bar }+ arg   # 'arg' with '--foo' '--bar'
arg +{ fox=1 baz=2 }   # 'arg' with 'fox=1' 'baz=2'</pre>

  <p>Multiple leading and/or trailing groups can be specified for the same
  argument. For example:</p>

  <pre>{ -f }+ { -b }+ arg +{ f=1 } +{ b=2 } # 'arg' with '-f' 'b' 'f=1' 'b=2'</pre>

  <p>Note that the group applies to a single argument only. For example:</p>

  <pre>{ --foo }+ arg1  arg2 +{ --bar }  # 'arg1' with '--foo' and
                                  # 'arg2' with '--bar'</pre>

  <p>The group separators ('<code><b>{</b></code>', '<code><b>}+'</b></code>,
  etc) must be separate command line arguments. In particular, they must not
  be adjacent either to the arguments inside the group nor to the argument
  they apply to. All such cases will be treated as ordinary arguments. For
  example:</p>

  <pre>{--foo}+ arg   # '{--foo}+' ...
arg+{ --foo }  # 'arg+{' ...</pre>

  <p>If one of the group separators needs to be specified as an argument
  verbatim, then it must be escaped with '<code><b>\</b></code>'. For
  example:</p>

  <pre>}             # error: unexpected group separator
}x            # '}x'
\}            # '}'
{ \}+ }+ arg  # 'arg' with '}+'</pre>

  <h1>BUGS</h1>

  <p>Send bug reports to the
  <a href="mailto:users@build2.org">users@build2.org</a> mailing list.</p>

</div>

<div id="footer">
Copyright &#169; 2014-2020 the build2 authors.<br/>
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the MIT License.
</div>

</body>
</html>
